---
layout: post
title: "My commitments for Week 8" 
comments: true
permalink: "Week-8"
---
{% include countdown.html %}

*Welcome to my blog!* I want to write about my journey as a first-time entrepreneur. I haven't really figured out yet what type of content I will post and how often I update the blog. However, I am sure that I will find my style and rhythm along the way.

-----

In this first post I want to document my commitments I made for the coming *Week 8*. My plan is to put out such a *commitment post* once a week, and I hope that it will be interesting for you to read along. 

I will hold myself accountable to these goals and evaluate my progress by the end of the week. In that sense, writing about my progress will help me to stay focused. These goals have the highest priority, i.e. I will not do any other work before these goals are completed *(except for the scheduled phone calls with potential clients)*.

###Goals

Without further ado, here is my goal for next week: 

- Having decided on which niche or niches I want to focus on for my product *Paybeat*

To break this down even further:

1. Brainstorm an initial list of professions by:
  * Google / Quora research
  * Government statistics
  * Making a list of competitors (via getapp.com) and
  * ... looking at the niches those competitors are targeting.
2. Make a list for criteria to select niches, such as:
  * Being a solo-entreprenuer
  * More than 10.000 in niche
  * Use software
  * High volume of invoices
  * regulatory framework
3. Research the regulatory framework for each of these niches via:
  * Google / Quora research
  * Expert interviews on Clarity.fm
4. Evaluate niches based on the criteria list and deciding on a niche or niches

###Why?

When it comes to goal setting, the *why* is obviously more important than the *how*. Therefore I will also always provide a short section about the reason for pursuing these stated goals.

I have started to focus on the *Life & Business Coaches* niche since the beginning of this year. I have so far talked to about ten coaches and experts on the phone and many more through social media. 

I have quickly learned that:

* A large percentage of the 55,000 coaches worldwide are only working part time, which means that they do not have very many clients to invoice. 
* Many coaches considers their business a hobby/passion rather than a business
* Many coaches are low tech

To sum it up, coaching is a unfortunately a terrible niche for creating (any kind of) specialized B2B SaaS software for. As a result, I need to either broaden or shift my focus to other niches. 


{% include twitter_plug.html %}